README.md, before:

<<<<<<< HEAD
# HappyTailz
=======
# HappyTailz

A Node.js Express application ready for development.

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v14 or higher)
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. Clone or navigate to the project directory
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Copy the environment file:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

4. Update the `.env` file with your configuration

### Running the Application

#### Development Mode (with auto-restart)
```bash
npm run dev
```

#### Production Mode
```bash
npm start
```

The server will start on `http://localhost:3000` (or the port specified in your `.env` file).

## 📁 Project Structure

```
HappyTailz/
├── controllers/          # Route controllers
│   └── exampleController.js
├── middleware/           # Custom middleware
│   └── auth.js
├── routes/              # Route definitions
│   └── index.js
├── .env                 # Environment variables (not in git)
├── .env.example         # Environment variables template
├── .gitignore          # Git ignore file
├── package.json        # Project dependencies and scripts
├── README.md           # This file
└── server.js           # Main application file
```

## 🛠️ Available Scripts

- `npm start` - Start the server in production mode
- `npm run dev` - Start the server in development mode with nodemon
- `npm test` - Run tests (placeholder)

## 📡 API Endpoints

### Default Routes

- `GET /` - Welcome message and server status
- `GET /health` - Health check endpoint

### Example Routes (in routes/index.js)

- `GET /api/` - API information

## 🔧 Configuration

The application uses environment variables for configuration. Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and update the values as needed.

### Environment Variables

- `PORT` - Server port (default: 3000)
- `NODE_ENV` - Environment mode (development/production)

## 🚦 Middleware

The application includes the following middleware:

- **CORS** - Cross-origin resource sharing
- **Express JSON** - Parse JSON request bodies
- **Express URL Encoded** - Parse URL-encoded request bodies
- **Custom Auth** - Example authentication middleware (in middleware/auth.js)

## 📝 Development

This is a basic Express.js setup ready for development. You can:

1. Add new routes in the `routes/` directory
2. Create controllers in the `controllers/` directory
3. Add middleware in the `middleware/` directory
4. Configure environment variables in `.env`

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
>>>>>>> 32d1c90 (Initial commit)

Commit message:

image issue fixed by buffer method

README.md, after:

# HappyTailz

A Node.js Express application ready for development.

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v14 or higher)
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. Clone or navigate to the project directory
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Copy the environment file:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

4. Update the `.env` file with your configuration

### Running the Application

#### Development Mode (with auto-restart)
```bash
npm run dev
```

#### Production Mode
```bash
npm start
```

The server will start on `http://localhost:3000` (or the port specified in your `.env` file).

## 📁 Project Structure

```
HappyTailz/
├── controllers/          # Route controllers
│   └── exampleController.js
├── middleware/           # Custom middleware
│   └── auth.js
├── routes/              # Route definitions
│   └── index.js
├── .env                 # Environment variables (not in git)
├── .env.example         # Environment variables template
├── .gitignore          # Git ignore file
├── package.json        # Project dependencies and scripts
├── README.md           # This file
└── server.js           # Main application file
```

## 🛠️ Available Scripts

- `npm start` - Start the server in production mode
- `npm run dev` - Start the server in development mode with nodemon
- `npm test` - Run tests (placeholder)

## 📡 API Endpoints

### Default Routes

- `GET /` - Welcome message and server status
- `GET /health` - Health check endpoint

### Image Handling (Buffers)

Images are no longer stored on disk or referenced by URL. Instead, images are stored directly in MongoDB as buffers and returned as base64 strings with their MIME type.

- Stored field shape across models: `image: { contentType: string, data: string(base64) }`
- Request options for endpoints that accept images (e.g., `POST /api/pets`, `PUT /api/profile`, `POST /api/admin/*`):
  - Multipart form upload: field name `image` (binary file)
  - JSON base64 fields:
    - `imageData`: base64 string of the image
    - `imageContentType`: MIME type (e.g., `image/png`)

Server body size limit is set to ~15MB. Typical max image upload enforced by Multer is 5MB per file.

## 🔧 Configuration

The application uses environment variables for configuration. Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and update the values as needed.

### Environment Variables

- `PORT` - Server port (default: 3000)
- `NODE_ENV` - Environment mode (development/production)

## 🚦 Middleware

The application includes the following middleware:

- **CORS** - Cross-origin resource sharing
- **Express JSON** - Parse JSON request bodies (limit 15MB)
- **Express URL Encoded** - Parse URL-encoded request bodies (limit 15MB)
- **Custom Auth** - Example authentication middleware (in middleware/auth.js)

## 📝 Development

This is a basic Express.js setup ready for development. You can:

1. Add new routes in the `routes/` directory
2. Create controllers in the `controllers/` directory
3. Add middleware in the `middleware/` directory
4. Configure environment variables in `.env`

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
